add error message guideline (#1163)
oras-project/oras: docs/proposals/error-handling-guideline.md

# ORAS CLI Error Handling and Message Guidelines

This document aims to provide the guidelines for ORAS contributors to improve existing error messages and error handling method as well as the new error output format. It will also provide recommendations and examples for ORAS CLI contributors for how to write friendly and standard error messages, avoid generating inconsistent and ambiguous error messages.

## General guiding principles

A clear and actionable error message is very important when raising an error, so make sure your error message describes clearly what the error is and tells users what they need to do if possible.

First and foremost, make the error messages descriptive and informative. Error messages are expected to be helpful to troubleshoot where the user has done something wrong and the program is guiding them in the right direction. A great error message is recommended to contain the following elements:

> 

Author: Agree. Error code is optional and is generally from the server side. So in some cases error code is also necessary to be showed in the error message.
Splitting "What the error is" and "How to solve it" into two lines looks much straightforward for users. If you look at Docker, Docker error messages are also following this style.

> 

Reviewer: How will the error title be used? Giving a usage example would clarify this.

> 

Author: I removed "error title" because this is a bit redundant. A concise and brief error description is enough.
 
The recommended error message structure is listed at [line49](https://github.com/oras-project/oras/pull/1163/files#diff-87978b235bb041f07bf2e71966c261dd6103d718e95ebb9c5c984bebbaf5d357R49).

> - Error code (When the logs are generated from the server side)

Reviewer 2: What's a sample of error code? Is it a status code?

Author: Yes, it's status code.

Third, for unhandled errors you didn’t expect the user to run into. For that, have a way to view full traceback information as well as full debug or verbose logs output, and instructions on how to submit a bug.

Fourth, signal-to-noise ratio is crucial. The more irrelevant output you produce, the longer it’s going to take the user to figure out what they did wrong. If your program produces multiple errors of the same type, consider grouping them under a single explanatory header instead of printing many similar-looking lines.

Last, error logs can also be useful for post-mortem debugging but make sure they have timestamps, truncate them occasionally so they don’t eat up space on disk, and make sure they don’t contain ansi color codes. Thereby, error logs can be written to a file.

## Error output recommendation

### Dos

- Use the capital letter ahead of each line of any error message

> - Print human readable error message. If the error message is mainly from the server and varies by different servers, tell users that the error response is from server. This implies that users may need to contact server side for troubleshooting.

Author: The purpose is to distinguish whether this error is from the client side or server (registry) side. If it is explicit that the error is from the server side, users would know that they may need to ask for support on the registry side.

> - Print human readable error message. If the error message is mainly from the server and varies by different servers, tell users that the error response is from server. This implies that users may need to contact server side for troubleshooting.

Reviewer: How will this information will be shown in the error message? How will the customer know that this is a server error or client error?

- If the actionable prompt message is too long to show in the CLI output, consider guide users to ORAS user guide or troubleshooting guide with the permanent link.
- If the error message is not enough for troubleshooting, guide users to use "--verbose" to print much more detailed logs

### Don'Ts

- Do not use a formula-like or a programming expression in the error message. (e.g, `json: cannot unmarshal string into Go value of type map[string]map[string]string.`, or `Parameter 'xyz' must conform to the following pattern: '^[-\\w\\._\\(\\)]+$'`)
- Do not use ambiguous expressions which mean nothing to users. (e.g, `Something unexpected happens`, or `Error: accepts 2 arg(s), received 0`)
- Do not print irrelevant error message to make the output noisy. The more irrelevant output you produce, the longer it’s going to take the user to figure out what they did wrong.

## How to write friendly error message

### Recommended error message structure

Here is a sample structure of an error message:

```text

> Error: [Error code] : [Error title] : [Error description] 

Reviewer 2: nit: convention
```suggestion
Error: [Error code]: [Error title]: [Error description] 
```

Usage: [Command usage]
[Recommended solution], [TSG]
```

### Examples

Here are some examples of writing error message with helpful prompt actionable information:

#### Example 1: when no reference provided in `oras copy`

Current behavior and output:

```
$ oras cp
Error: accepts 2 arg(s), received 0
```

Suggested error message:

```
$ oras cp
Error: "oras copy" requires exactly 2 arguments.

Usage: oras copy [flags] <from>{:<tag>|@<digest>} <to>[:<tag>[,<tag>][...]]
Copy artifacts from one target to another. Run "oras copy -h" for more options and examples
```

#### Example 2: when reference does not match with the expected format

Current behavior and output:

```
$ oras tag list ghcr.io/oras-project/oras
Error: unable to add tag for 'list': invalid reference: missing repository
```

Suggested error message:

```
$ oras tag list ghcr.io/oras-project/oras

> Error: unable to add tag for 'list': invalid reference: missing repository

Author: Updated

Current behavior and output:

```
$ oras manifest push --oci-layout /tmp/ginkgo2167255592:mediatype-flag
Error: media type is not recognized. 
```

Suggested error message:

```
$ oras manifest push --oci-layout /tmp/ginkgo2167255592:mediatype-flag
Error: media type is not recognized. 
Specify an valid media type with "--media-type"
```

#### Example 5: attach an artifact if the given option is unknown

Current behavior and output:

```
$ oras attach --artifact-type oras/test localhost:7000/command/images:foobar --distribution-spec v1.0
Error: unknown distribution specification flag: v1.0
```

Suggested error message:

```
$ oras attach --artifact-type oras/test localhost:7000/command/images:foobar --distribution-spec ???
Error: unknown distribution specification flag: "v1.0". 
Available options: v1.1-referrers-api, v1.1-referrers-tag
```

#### Example 6: when attaching an file, if no file reference is provided

Current behavior and output:

```
$ oras attach --artifact-type oras/test /tmp/ginkgo2977244222:foobar >>
Error: no blob is provided
```

Suggested error message:

```
$ oras attach --artifact-type oras/test /tmp/ginkgo2977244222:foobar >>

> Error: no blob is provided

Reviewer: This is still not helpful. What does
> no blob is provided 

mean? The error can be more descriptive. Something like:
> Failed to redirect output. Not output file provided in the command.

Also, without listing the full command in the logs it will be hard for the user to troubleshoot.

```

#### Example 8: When pushing files, if the annotation value doesn't match the required syntax

Current behavior and output:

```
$ oras push --annotation "key:value" ghcr.io/library/alpine:3.9
Error: missing key in `--annotation` flag: key:value
```

Suggested error message:

```
$ oras push --annotation "key:value" ghcr.io/library/alpine:3.9
Error: annotation value doesn't match the required format.
Try `oras push --annotation "key=value" ghcr.io/library/alpine:3.9`  
```

#### Example 9: when failed to pull files from a public registry

```
$ oras pull docker.io/nginx:latest
Error: failed to resolve latest: GET "https://registry-1.docker.io/v2/nginx/manifests/latest": response status code 401: unauthorized: authentication required: [map[Action:pull Class: Name:nginx Type:repository]]
```

Suggested error message:

```
$ oras pull docker.io/nginx:latest
Error: failed to resolve the resource from server: pull access denied for ghcr.io/nginx:latest : response status code 401: unauthorized: requested access to the resource is denied
Namespace is missing, do you mean `oras pull docker.io/library/nginx:latest`? 
```

> 

Reviewer: In the above examples, some of the error messages have suggestions while other not. For consistency we should make sure that each error message has a suggestion.

> ## Reference

Reviewer: One thing that is not covered in this spec is to specify which errors will output error code 0 (automation will continue) and which will output something different from 0 (automation will break). In my experience, ORAS returns error codes that break automation when they shouldn't. The typical example is when manifest index delete fails for OCI 1.0 references.

Author: Good point. I will investigate current behavior of ORAS, what is the right approach to return error code 0, and when to break automation. Then add a paragraph for this part

Reviewer: I think my ask here is different. What you point me to is what I explained above with 0 and 1 Exist Status. What I am asking is to have a guidance what type of errors will return `EXIT_SUCCESS` and `EXIT_FAILURE`. I am envisioning one specific use case where DELETE of the manifest index fails but the reference is pushed and from customer point of view this is `EXIT_SUCCESS` but we return `EXIT_FAILURE`

Author: @toddysm 
All types of errors will be in stderr and should return `EXIT_FAILURE`, the automation should also be terminated.

For that specific case, I remember it was reproduced in `oras attach` when use ORAS with registries that don't support Deletion API (e.g. Docker Hub). It was a bug and has been fixed. The reference will not be attached successfully and `oras attach` will fail in that case.

@shizhMSFT can correct me if I am wrong.

Reviewer 2: Here's the definition: The `oras` CLI returns `EXIT_FAILURE` if and only if the `oras` CLI reports one or more errors.

In the case of returning an "error" with `EXIT_SUCCESS`, that "error" is considered as a warning and shall be corrected as a warning.

---

> I am envisioning one specific use case where DELETE of the manifest index fails but the reference is pushed and from customer point of view this is `EXIT_SUCCESS` but we return `EXIT_FAILURE`

In the above case the deletion failed shall be corrected (if not corrected already) to a warning instead of an error, and thus the `oras` CLI returns `EXIT_SUCCESS`.

Author: Thanks @shizhMSFT for the clarification. I added your suggested definition to the General guiding principles section.

# ORAS CLI Error Handling and Message Guideline

This document aims to provide the guidelines for ORAS contributors to improve existing error messages and error handling method as well as the new error output format. It will also provide recommendations and examples for ORAS CLI contributors for how to write friendly and standard error messages, avoid generating inconsistent and ambiguous error messages.

## General guiding principles

A clear and actionable error message is very important when raising an error, so make sure your error message describes clearly what the error is and tells users what they need to do if possible.

First and foremost, make the error messages descriptive and informative. Error messages are expected to be helpful to troubleshoot where the user has done something wrong and the program is guiding them in the right direction. A great error message is recommended to contain the following elements:

- Error code: optional, when the logs are generated from the server side
- Error description: describe what the error is

> - Suggestion: How to fix the error. Versioned troubleshooting document link is nice to have.

Reviewer 2: Not all errors can be fixed.

Second, when necessary, it is highly suggested for ORAS CLI contributors to provide recommendations for users how to resolve the problems based on the error messages they encountered. Showing descriptive words and straightforward prompt with executable commands as a potential solution is a good practice for error messages.

> Third, for unhandled errors you didn’t expect the user to run into. For that, have a way to view full traceback information as well as full debug or verbose logs output, and instructions on how to submit a bug.

Reviewer 2: nit: use ASCII chars
```suggestion
Third, for unhandled errors you didn't expect the user to run into. For that, have a way to view full traceback information as well as full debug or verbose logs output, and instructions on how to submit a bug.
```

Fourth, signal-to-noise ratio is crucial. The more irrelevant output you produce, the longer it’s going to take the user to figure out what they did wrong. If your program produces multiple errors of the same type, consider grouping them under a single explanatory header instead of printing many similar-looking lines.

Fifth, CLI program termination should follow the standard [Exit Status conventions](https://www.gnu.org/software/libc/manual/html_node/Exit-Status.html) to report execution status information about success or failure. 

> Last, error logs can also be useful for post-mortem debugging but make sure they have timestamps, truncate them occasionally so they don’t eat up space on disk, and make sure they don’t contain ansi color codes. Thereby, error logs can be written to a file.

Reviewer 2: Timestamps by apps are not necessary as upper logging system will provide.

Author: Removed "Timestamps"

- If the actionable prompt message is too long to show in the CLI output, consider guide users to ORAS user guide or troubleshooting guide with the permanent link.
- If the error message is not enough for troubleshooting, guide users to use "--verbose" to print much more detailed logs

### Don'Ts

- Do not use a formula-like or a programming expression in the error message. (e.g, `json: cannot unmarshal string into Go value of type map[string]map[string]string.`, or `Parameter 'xyz' must conform to the following pattern: '^[-\\w\\._\\(\\)]+$'`)
- Do not use ambiguous expressions which mean nothing to users. (e.g, `Something unexpected happens`, or `Error: accepts 2 arg(s), received 0`)
- Do not print irrelevant error message to make the output noisy. The more irrelevant output you produce, the longer it’s going to take the user to figure out what they did wrong.

## How to write friendly error message

### Recommended error message structure

Here is a sample structure of an error message:

```text

> Error:[Status code]: [Error description] 
> Usage: [Command usage]
> [Recommended solution]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Error: [{Status code}:] {Error description}
[Usage: {Command usage}]
[{Recommended solution}]
```

> [Recommended solution]

Author: No. `Help:` is not necessary here because this message is obviously a help message

> Error: [{Status code}:] {Error description}

Reviewer 3: This structure need to be updated. Firstly, the error prompt can be `Error:` or `Error response from registry:`. Secondly, status code only applies to errors from registry and should be part of the error description.

```suggestion
{Error|Error response from registry}: {Error description}
```

```

> - Status code is an optional information. If the error message is generated from the server side, it may include error code or [warn code](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7234#section-5.5). It could be printed out alongside the error description.

Reviewer 2: Warn code should be prefixed with `Warning:`, not `Error:`. Additionally, warn code is fixed as defined in the [distribution-spec](https://github.com/opencontainers/distribution-spec/blob/main/spec.md#warnings).

Author: Removed `Warning`

- Command usage is also an optional information but it's recommended to be printed out when user input doesn't follow the standard usage or examples. 

> - Recommended solution is required and should follow the general guiding principles described above.

Reviewer 2: Not all errors are fixable / resolvable. Those errors are considered as fatal errors or unknown errors.

Author: Updated

### Examples

Here are some examples of writing error message with helpful prompt actionable information:

#### Example 1: when no reference provided in `oras copy`

Current behavior and output:

```
$ oras cp
Error: accepts 2 arg(s), received 0
```

Suggested error message:

```
$ oras cp

> Error: "oras copy" requires exactly 2 arguments.

Reviewer 3: What is received is not mentioned, suggest to add number of arguments received
```console
$ oras cp localhost:5000/ test:from localhost:5000/test:to
Error: "oras cp" requires exactly 2 arguments but got 3
Usage: oras cp [flags] <from>{:<tag>|@<digest>} <to>[:<tag>[,<tag>][...]]
Please specify exactly 2 arguments as the source and destination for copying. Run "oras cp -h" for more options and examples

$ oras cp
Error: "oras cp" requires exactly 2 arguments but got 0
Usage: oras cp [flags] <from>{:<tag>|@<digest>} <to>[:<tag>[,<tag>][...]]
Please specify exactly 2 arguments as the source and destination for copying. Run "oras cp -h" for more options and examples
```

Usage: oras copy [flags] <from>{:<tag>|@<digest>} <to>[:<tag>[,<tag>][...]]

> Copy artifacts from one target to another. Run "oras copy -h" for more options and examples

Reviewer 3: `Copy artifacts from one target to another.`  does not sound actionable. How about `You need to specify two arguments as source and destination for copying.`

> You need to specify two arguments as source and destination respectively. Run "oras copy -h" for more options and examples

Author: I don't find there is a general style guide that answers this question. Even though in Git, we also see it uses "you", "your" in its output messages. My suggestion is that ORAS should try to avoid using [personal pronouns](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Personal_pronoun) but this is still allowed in some cases, such as questioning the CLI user.

```

#### Example 2: when reference does not match with the expected format

Current behavior and output:

```
$ oras tag list ghcr.io/oras-project/oras
Error: unable to add tag for 'list': invalid reference: missing repository
```

Suggested error message:

```
$ oras tag list ghcr.io/oras-project/oras

> Error: There is no "list" sub-command for "oras tag" command.

Author: by exact match. This is a certain case.

Usage: oras tag [flags] <name>{:<tag>|@<digest>} <new_tag> [...]

> Tag a manifest in a registry or an OCI image layout. Run "oras tag -h" for more options and examples

Reviewer 3: Should we suggest user to use `oras repo show-tags` in this case? `Tag a manifest in a registry or an OCI image layout.` doesn't sound actionable.

Author: How about: 
If you want to tag a manifest in a registry or an OCI image layout, use "oras tag". If you want to list available tags in a repository, use "oras repo show tags"

```

#### Example 3: When fetching a manifest if no manifest tag or digest is provided

Current behavior and output:

```
$ oras manifest fetch --oci-layout /tmp/ginkgo1163328512
Error: "/tmp/ginkgo1163328512": no tag or digest when expecting <name:tag|name@digest>
```

Suggested error message:

```
$ oras manifest fetch --oci-layout /tmp/ginkgo1163328512
Error: "/tmp/ginkgo1163328512": no tag or digest specified
Usage: oras manifest fetch [flags] <name>{:<tag>|@<digest>}

> Fetch manifest of the target artifact. Run "oras manifest fetch -h" for more options and examples 

Reviewer 3: `Fetch manifest of the target artifact.` does not sound actionable. How about `You need to specify an artifact reference in form of name:tag or name@digest`

```

#### Example 4: push a manifest if no media type flag provided

Current behavior and output:

```
$ oras manifest push --oci-layout /sample/images:foobar:mediatype
Error: media type is not recognized. 
```

Suggested error message:

```
$ oras manifest push --oci-layout /sample/images:foobar:mediatype
Error: media type is not recognized. 
Usage: oras manifest push [flags] <name>[:<tag>[,<tag>][...]|@<digest>] <file>

> Specify an valid media type with the "--media-type" flag.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You need to specify a valid media type in the manifest JSON or via the "--media-type" flag.
```

```

#### Example 5: attach an artifact if the given option is unknown

Current behavior and output:

```
$ oras attach --artifact-type oras/test localhost:5000/command/images:foobar --distribution-spec v1.0
Error: unknown distribution specification flag: v1.0
```

Suggested error message:

```
$ oras attach --artifact-type oras/test localhost:5000/sample/images:foobar --distribution-spec ???
Error: unknown distribution specification flag: "v1.0". 
Available options: v1.1-referrers-api, v1.1-referrers-tag
```

#### Example 6: when attaching an file, if no file reference is provided

Current behavior and output:

```
$ oras attach --artifact-type sbom/example localhost:5000/sample/images:foobar
Error: no blob is provided
```

Suggested error message:

```

> $ oras attach --artifact-type sbom/example localhost:5000/sample/images:foobar

Author: Add annotations as one of the error cases

> $ oras attach --artifact-type sbom/example localhost:5000/sample/images:foobar
> Error: failed to attach a file. No file provided in the command.
> Usage: oras attach [flags] --artifact-type=<type> <name>{:<tag>|@<digest>} <file>[:<type>] [...]
> To attach files to an existing artifact, try "oras attach --artifact-type sbom/example localhost:5000/sample/images:foobar sample.json". Run "oras attach -h" for more options and examples

Reviewer 3: User need to provide at least a file or an annotation for attaching. The proper error message should be:
```suggestion
$ oras attach --artifact-type sbom/example localhost:5000/sample/images:foobar
Error: no file or annotation provided in the command.
Usage: oras attach [flags] --artifact-type=<type> <name>{:<tag>|@<digest>} <file>[:<type>] [...]
To attach to an existing artifact, please provide files via argument or annotations via flag `-a/--annotation`. Run "oras attach -h" for more options and examples.
```

Author: Updated

```

#### Example 7: When pushing files, if the annotation file doesn't match the required format

Current behavior and output:

```
$ oras push --annotation-file sbom.json ghcr.io/library/alpine:3.9
Error: failed to load annotations from sbom.json: json: cannot unmarshal string into Go value of type map[string]map[string]string. Please refer to the document at https://oras.land/docs/how_to_guides/manifest_annotations
```

Suggested error message:

```
$ oras push --annotation-file annotation.json ghcr.io/library/alpine:3.9

> Error response from registry: failed to load annotations from sbom.json: json: cannot unmarshal string into Go value of type map[string]map[string]string. 

Reviewer 3: This is not a registry error, suggest to change the error description to:
```suggestion
Error: invalid manifest json file: failed to load annotations from sbom.json
```

Author: I remember `json: cannot unmarshal string into Go value of type map[string]map[string]string` is a registry error message. Can we remove it?

Reviewer 3: In this case it's not a registry error. Here annotation file is a user input and JSOM unmarshal goes wrong based on the user input。

Please refer to the document at https://oras.land/docs/how_to_guides/manifest_annotations.
```

#### Example 8: When pushing files, if the annotation value doesn't match the required syntax

Current behavior and output:

```
$ oras push --annotation "key:value" ghcr.io/library/alpine:3.9
Error: missing key in `--annotation` flag: key:value
```

Suggested error message:

```
$ oras push --annotation "key:value" ghcr.io/library/alpine:3.9
Error: annotation value doesn't match the required format.
Try `oras push --annotation "key=value" ghcr.io/library/alpine:3.9`  
```

#### Example 9: when failed to pull files from a public registry

```
$ oras pull docker.io/nginx:latest

> Error: failed to resolve latest: GET "https://registry-1.docker.io/v2/nginx/manifests/latest": response status code 401: unauthorized: authentication required: [map[Action:pull Class: Name:nginx Type:repository]]

Author: Updated.

# ORAS CLI Error Handling and Message Guidelines

This document aims to provide the guidelines for ORAS contributors to improve existing error messages and error handling method as well as the new error output format. It will also provide recommendations for ORAS CLI contributors for how to write friendly and standard error messages and avoid inconsistent error handling & messages.

## General guiding principles

> A clear and actionable error message is very important when raising an error, so make sure your error message describes clearly what the error is and tells users what they need to do if possible.

Reviewer 4: Maybe we can show a concrete example of good error message, which helps users to understand and is also useful when producing new error messages.

Author: There are 9 examples at https://github.com/oras-project/oras/pull/1163/files#diff-87978b235bb041f07bf2e71966c261dd6103d718e95ebb9c5c984bebbaf5d357R55

First and foremost, make the error messages descriptive and informative. Error messages are expected to be helpful to troubleshoot where the user has done something wrong and the program is guiding them in the right direction. A great error message is recommended to contain the following:

> - Error code

Reviewer 4: IMO, Error code should be optional

Author: In general, logs from server side contain the error code, such as https://github.com/oras-project/oras/pull/1163/files#diff-87978b235bb041f07bf2e71966c261dd6103d718e95ebb9c5c984bebbaf5d357R207

> - Error title

Reviewer 4: What distinguishes a title from a description? Perhaps we can provide greater clarity. While both the title and description may not always be informative, we can emphasize that they should convey what happened and why it happened.

- Error description 
- How to fix the error

> - URL for more information (Optional, it can be a TSG document link)

Reviewer 4: We can put a guideline on using a URL that it will not likely be changed. We met this problem in Notation that the URL changed.

Author: Yes, That's being said we should use a versioned document link in error message

Second, when necessary, it is highly suggested for ORAS CLI contributors to provide recommendations for users how to resolve the problems based on the error messages they encountered. Showing descriptive words and straightforward prompt with executable commands as a potential solution is a good practice for error messages.

Third, for unhandled errors you didn’t expect the user to run into. For that, have a way to view full traceback information as well as full debug or verbose logs output, and instructions on how to submit a bug.

> Forth, signal-to-noise ratio is crucial. The more irrelevant output you produce, the longer it’s going to take the user to figure out what they did wrong. If your program produces multiple errors of the same type, consider grouping them under a single explanatory header instead of printing many similar-looking lines.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Fourth, signal-to-noise ratio is crucial. The more irrelevant output you produce, the longer it’s going to take the user to figure out what they did wrong. If your program produces multiple errors of the same type, consider grouping them under a single explanatory header instead of printing many similar-looking lines.
```

Last, error logs can also be useful for post-mortem debugging but make sure they have timestamps, truncate them occasionally so they don’t eat up space on disk, and make sure they don’t contain ansi color codes. Thereby, error logs can be written to a file.

## Error output recommendation

### Dos

> - Use the capital letter ahead of an error message

Reviewer 3: Can you be more specific about what is an error message? Can it be multiple line? Maybe `Use the capital letter ahead of each line of any error message`?

- Print human readable error message. If the error message is mainly from the server and varies by different servers, tell users that the error response is from server. This implies that users may need to contact server side for troubleshooting.

> - Provide specific and actionable prompt message with argument suggestion or show the example usage for reference. (e.g, Instead of showing showing flag or argument options is missing, please provide available argument options and guide users to "--help" to view more examples)

Reviewer 3: Good point on how to be information. How about adding a new bullet point here on how to be descriptive? E.g. Provide full description if the user input does not match what CLI is expecting. A full description should include 1) what input is received and 2) what input is expected.

- If the actionable prompt message is too long to show in the CLI output, consider guide users to ORAS user guide or troubleshooting guide with the permanent link.
- If the error message is not enough for troubleshooting, guide users to use "--verbose" to print much more detailed logs

### Don'Ts

- Do not use a formula-like or a programming expression in the error message. (e.g, `json: cannot unmarshal string into Go value of type map[string]map[string]string.`, or `Parameter 'xyz' must conform to the following pattern: '^[-\\w\\._\\(\\)]+$'`)
- Do not use ambiguous expressions which mean nothing to users. (e.g, `Something unexpected happens`, or `Error: accepts 2 arg(s), received 0`)
- Do not print irrelevant error message to make the output noisy. The more irrelevant output you produce, the longer it’s going to take the user to figure out what they did wrong.

## How to write friendly error message

> ### Recommended error meesage structure

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Recommended error message structure
```

> Here is a sample structure of an error message:

Reviewer 3: Should all error message be output to stderr? Currently it is.

Reviewer 5: stderr should be used IMO

Reviewer 4: It’s also worth mentioning that error messages will be printed to a specific I/O as a guideline.

Author: All error message are expected to output to stderr.

```text
Error: [Error description] : [Error code] ：[Error title]

> 

Reviewer 3: Just wondering, can we not put a blank line here? The prefix has already made each section clear.

Reviewer 5: Maybe I'm not understanding title and description, but I would expect something along the lines of `Error: code: title: description`

> Usage: [Sample command]

Reviewer 3: It's not sample command but a descriptive syntax of the command usage.
```suggestion
Usage: [command usage]
```

> Help: [Recommended solution], [TSG]

Reviewer 3: IMHO we can skip the `Help: ` prefix. It's the default behavior of cobra and should be reused by most cobra-based CLIs.

Author: SGTM

> Help: [Recommended solution], [TSG]

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[Recommended solution], [TSG]
```

$ oras tag list ghcr.io/oras-project/oras
Error: unable to add tag for 'list': invalid reference: missing repository

Usage: oras tag [flags] <name>{:<tag>|@<digest>} <new_tag> [...]
Help: Tag a manifest in a registry or an OCI image layout. Run "oras tag -h" for more options and examples
```

#### Example 3: When fetching a manifest if no manifest tag or digest is provided

Current behavior and output:

```
$ oras manifest fetch --oci-layout /tmp/ginkgo1163328512 >>
Error: "/tmp/ginkgo1163328512": no tag or digest when expecting <name:tag|name@digest>
```

Suggested error message:

```
$ oras manifest fetch --oci-layout /tmp/ginkgo1163328512 >>
Error: "/tmp/ginkgo1163328512": no tag or digest specified

Usage: oras manifest fetch [flags] <name>{:<tag>|@<digest>}
Help: Fetch manifest of the target artifact. Run "oras manifest fetch -h" for more options and examples 
```

#### Example 4: push a manifest if no media type flag provided

Current behavior and output:

```
$ oras manifest push --oci-layout /tmp/ginkgo2167255592:mediatype-flag
Error: media type is not recognized. 
```

Suggested error message:

```
$ oras manifest push --oci-layout /tmp/ginkgo2167255592:mediatype-flag

> Error: media type is not recognized. Specify an valid media type with "--media-type"

Reviewer 3: `recognized` is too general, the actual action is: ORAS CLI tried to found a valid `mediaType` in the manifest but failed. Any idea on how to make it less general and more descriptive?
```

Reviewer 3: ` Specify an valid media type with "--media-type"` Should we put this to `Help:`?

Author: Is there a doc that lists all available "media type" as a reference for users? Maybe we could provide a doc link to users.

Reviewer 3: > Is there a doc that lists all available "media type" as a reference for users?

The general media type should follow the description in https://github.com/opencontainers/image-spec/blob/main/descriptor.md#properties.

Also, the problem here is `media type should be specified in the manifest or via flag but it's not found`, not `provided media type is invalid`.

Reviewer 5: This was resolved

```

#### Example 5: attach an artifact if the given option is unknown

Current behavior and output:

```
$ oras attach --artifact-type oras/test localhost:7000/command/images:foobar --distribution-spec ???
Error: unknown distribution specification flag: "???"
```

Suggested error message:

```
$ oras attach --artifact-type oras/test localhost:7000/command/images:foobar --distribution-spec ???

> Error: unknown distribution specification flag: "???". Available options: v1.1-referrers-api, v1.1-referrers-tag

Reviewer 3: `Available options: v1.1-referrers-api, v1.1-referrers-tag` Should we put this to `Help:`?

```

#### Example 6: when attaching an file, if no file reference or manifest annotation provided

Current behavior and output:

```
$ oras attach --artifact-type oras/test /tmp/ginkgo2977244222:foobar >>
Error: no blob or manifest annotation are provided
```

Suggested error message:

```
$ oras attach --artifact-type oras/test /tmp/ginkgo2977244222:foobar >>
Error: no blob or manifest annotation are provided

> Usage: oras attach [flags] --artifact-type=<type> <name>{:<tag>|@<digest>} <file>[:<type>] [...]

Reviewer 4: The usage is too broad, and not helpful enough, maybe we can show an example for attaching files, and run `oras attach` for more usage and more examples.

Reviewer: This got resolved without any comments.

Author: Sorry for missing reply to this comment. 

This usage is for general reference if users don't follow the standard form of the command usage. It was defined in the [recommended error message structure](https://github.com/oras-project/oras/pull/1163/files#diff-87978b235bb041f07bf2e71966c261dd6103d718e95ebb9c5c984bebbaf5d357R94).

The detailed prompt message is showed at [line #166](![image](https://github.com/oras-project/oras/pull/1163/files#diff-87978b235bb041f07bf2e71966c261dd6103d718e95ebb9c5c984bebbaf5d357R166)

> Help: Attach files to an existing artifact. Run "oras attach" for more options and examples

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Help: Attach files to an existing artifact. Run "oras attach -h" for more options and examples
```

```

Suggested error message:

```
$ oras push --annotation-file annotation.json ghcr.io/library/alpine:3.9
Error: failed to load annotations from annotation.json: annotation file or syntax doesn't match the required format or syntax

Help: Please refer to the document at https://oras.land/docs/how_to_guides/manifest_annotations.
```

#### Example 8: When pushing files, if the annotation value doesn't match the required syntax

Current behavior and output:

```
$ oras push --annotation "key:value" ghcr.io/library/alpine:3.9
Error: missing key in `--annotation` flag: key:value
```

Suggested error message:

```
$ oras push --annotation "key:value" ghcr.io/library/alpine:3.9
Error: annotation value  doesn't match the required format.

Help: Try oras push --annotation "key=value" ghcr.io/library/alpine:3.9  
```

#### Example 9: when failed to pull files from a public registry

```
$ oras pull docker.io/nginx:latest
Error: failed to resolve latest: GET "https://registry-1.docker.io/v2/nginx/manifests/latest": response status code 401: unauthorized: authentication required: [map[Action:pull Class: Name:nginx Type:repository]]
```

Suggested error message:

```

> $ oras pull ghcr.io/nginx:latest

Reviewer 3: The registry is changed from `docker.io` to `ghcr.io`?
```suggestion
$ oras pull docker.io/nginx:latest
```

Error: failed to resolve the resource from server: pull access denied for ghcr.io/nginx:latest : response status code 401: unauthorized: requested access to the resource is denied

> Help: repository does not exist or namespace is missing, or may require 'oras login'. 

Reviewer 3: To unify the format
```suggestion
Help: Namespace is missing in `/nginx`, or run 'oras login ghcr.io' and provide a token with pull access.
```

# ORAS CLI Error Handling and Message Guideline

This document aims to provide the guidelines for ORAS contributors to improve existing error messages and error handling method as well as the new error output format. It will also provide recommendations and examples for ORAS CLI contributors for how to write friendly and standard error messages, avoid generating inconsistent and ambiguous error messages.

## General guiding principles

A clear and actionable error message is very important when raising an error, so make sure your error message describes clearly what the error is and tells users what they need to do if possible.

First and foremost, make the error messages descriptive and informative. Error messages are expected to be helpful to troubleshoot where the user has done something wrong and the program is guiding them in the right direction. A great error message is recommended to contain the following elements:

> - Status code: optional, when the logs are generated from the server side, it's recommended to print the status code in the error description

Author: It's HTTP status code from the server side.

> - Status code: optional, when the logs are generated from the server side, it's recommended to print the status code in the error description

Reviewer 2: @FeynmanZhou Can you clarify that in the doc?

> - Status code: optional, when the logs are generated from the server side, it's recommended to print the status code in the error description

Author: @shizhMSFT Updated *status code* to *HTTP status code* in the doc to avoid ambiguous.

Second, when necessary, it is highly suggested for ORAS CLI contributors to provide recommendations for users how to resolve the problems based on the error messages they encountered. Showing descriptive words and straightforward prompt with executable commands as a potential solution is a good practice for error messages.

Third, for unhandled errors you didn't expect the user to run into. For that, have a way to view full traceback information as well as full debug or verbose logs output, and instructions on how to submit a bug.

Fourth, signal-to-noise ratio is crucial. The more irrelevant output you produce, the longer it's going to take the user to figure out what they did wrong. If your program produces multiple errors of the same type, consider grouping them under a single explanatory header instead of printing many similar-looking lines.

Fifth, CLI program termination should follow the standard [Exit Status conventions](https://www.gnu.org/software/libc/manual/html_node/Exit-Status.html) to report execution status information about success or failure. ORAS returns `EXIT_FAILURE` if and only if ORAS reports one or more errors.

> Last, error logs can also be useful for post-mortem debugging, truncate them occasionally so they don't eat up space on disk, and make sure they don't contain ansi color codes. Thereby, error logs can be written to a file.

Author: Removed the description "eat up space on disk"

```

#### Example 7: When pushing files, if the annotation file doesn't match the required format

Current behavior and output:

```console
$ oras push --annotation-file sbom.json ghcr.io/library/alpine:3.9
Error: failed to load annotations from sbom.json: json: cannot unmarshal string into Go value of type map[string]map[string]string. Please refer to the document at https://oras.land/docs/how_to_guides/manifest_annotations
```

Suggested error message:

```console
$ oras push --annotation-file annotation.json ghcr.io/library/alpine:3.9
Error: invalid annotation json file: failed to load annotations from annotation.json.
Annotation file doesn't match the required format. Please refer to the document at https://oras.land/docs/how_to_guides/manifest_annotations
```

#### Example 8: When pushing files, if the annotation value doesn't match the required syntax

Current behavior and output:

```console
$ oras push --annotation "key:value" ghcr.io/library/alpine:3.9
Error: missing key in `--annotation` flag: key:value
```

Suggested error message:

```console
$ oras push --annotation "key:value" ghcr.io/library/alpine:3.9
Error: annotation value doesn't match the required format.

> Try --annotation "key=value"  

Author: No. ORAS should prompt the correct format only. I updated this prompt to the following:

```console
$ oras push --annotation "key:value" ghcr.io/library/alpine:3.9
Error: annotation value doesn't match the required format.
Please use the correct format in the flag: --annotation "key=value"  
```

Current behavior and output:

```console
$ oras push /oras --format json
Error: Head "https:///v2/oras/manifests/sha256:ffa50b27cd0096150c0338779c5090db41ba50d01179d851d68afa50b393c3a3": http: no Host in request URL
```

Suggested error message:

```console
$ oras push /oras --format json
Error: "/oras" is an invalid reference
Usage: oras push [flags] <name>[:<tag>[,<tag>][...]] <file>[:<type>] [...]
Please specify a valid reference in the form of <registry>/<repo>[:tag|@digest]
```

#### Example 11: Push a file or folder that doesn't exist

Current behavior and output:

```console
$ oras push localhost:5000/oras:v1 hello.txt
Error: failed to stat /home/user/hello.txt: stat /home/user/hello.txt: no such file or directory
```

Suggested error message:

```console
$ oras push localhost:5000/oras:v1 hello.txt
Error: /home/user/hello.txt: no such file or directory
```

## Reference

Parts of the content are borrowed from these guidelines.

- [Azure CLI Error Handling Guidelines](https://github.com/Azure/azure-cli/blob/dev/doc/error_handling_guidelines.md)
- [Command Line Interface Guidelines](https://clig.dev/#errors)

> - [12 Factor CLI Apps](https://medium.com/@jdxcode/12-factor-cli-apps-dd3c227a0e46)

Author: I chose to list this blog in the reference because some of the guiding principles in this document are inspired by it.

# ORAS CLI Error Handling and Message Guideline

This document aims to provide the guidelines for ORAS contributors to improve existing error messages and error handling method as well as the new error output format. It will also provide recommendations and examples for ORAS CLI contributors for how to write friendly and standard error messages, avoid generating inconsistent and ambiguous error messages.

## General guiding principles

A clear and actionable error message is very important when raising an error, so make sure your error message describes clearly what the error is and tells users what they need to do if possible.

First and foremost, make the error messages descriptive and informative. Error messages are expected to be helpful to troubleshoot where the user has done something wrong and the program is guiding them in the right direction. A great error message is recommended to contain the following elements:

> - Error code: optional, when the logs are generated from the server side

Author: It should be corrected to status code. I updated line11 as follows:

- Status code:  optional, when the logs are generated from the server side, it's recommended to print the status code in the error description

- If the actionable prompt message is too long to show in the CLI output, consider guide users to ORAS user guide or troubleshooting guide with the permanent link.
- If the error message is not enough for troubleshooting, guide users to use "--verbose" to print much more detailed logs

### Don'Ts

- Do not use a formula-like or a programming expression in the error message. (e.g, `json: cannot unmarshal string into Go value of type map[string]map[string]string.`, or `Parameter 'xyz' must conform to the following pattern: '^[-\\w\\._\\(\\)]+$'`)
- Do not use ambiguous expressions which mean nothing to users. (e.g, `Something unexpected happens`, or `Error: accepts 2 arg(s), received 0`)
- Do not print irrelevant error message to make the output noisy. The more irrelevant output you produce, the longer it's going to take the user to figure out what they did wrong.

## How to write friendly error message

### Recommended error message structure

Here is a sample structure of an error message:

```text

> Error: {Error|Error response from registry}: {Error description}

Reviewer 3: `{Error|Error response from registry}` means `Error` or `Error response from registry` will be printed out.

```suggestion
{Error|Error response from registry}: {Error description}
```

[Usage: {Command usage}]
[{Recommended solution}]
```

> - Status code is an optional information. Printed out the status code if the error message is generated from the server side. 

Reviewer 2: The status code is inconsistent with the above structure.

Author: Updated. Status code can be can be printed out in the error description if any.

- Command usage is also an optional information but it's recommended to be printed out when user input doesn't follow the standard usage or examples.
- Recommended solution (if any) should follow the general guiding principles described above.

### Examples

Here are some examples of writing error message with helpful prompt actionable information:

#### Example 1: When no reference provided in `oras copy`

Current behavior and output:

```
$ oras cp
Error: accepts 2 arg(s), received 0
```

Suggested error message:

```
$ oras cp
Error: "oras copy" requires exactly 2 arguments but received 0.
Usage: oras copy [flags] <from>{:<tag>|@<digest>} <to>[:<tag>[,<tag>][...]]
Please specify 2 arguments as source and destination respectively. Run "oras copy -h" for more options and examples
```

> #### Example 2: When reference does not match with the expected format

Reviewer 3: This is not an example of `reference does not match with the expected format`, this is a well-known mistake of using `repo show-tags` as `tag list`
```suggestion
#### Example 2: When user mistakenly use `tag list` command instead of `repo show-tags`
```

Current behavior and output:

```
$ oras tag list ghcr.io/oras-project/oras
Error: unable to add tag for 'list': invalid reference: missing repository
```

Suggested error message:

```
$ oras tag list ghcr.io/oras-project/oras
Error: There is no "list" sub-command for "oras tag" command.
Usage: oras tag [flags] <name>{:<tag>|@<digest>} <new_tag> [...]

> If you want to tag a manifest in a registry or an OCI image layout, use "oras tag". If you want to list available tags in a repository, use "oras repo show tags" 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you want to tag a manifest in a registry or an OCI image layout, use "oras tag". If you want to list available tags in a repository, use "oras repo show-tags" 
```
or simply `oras repo tags`.

> If you want to tag a manifest in a registry or an OCI image layout, use "oras tag". If you want to list available tags in a repository, use "oras repo show tags" 

Reviewer 2: The users clearly typed `oras tag list`. Why do we need to mention `oras tag`? It seems not related.

Author: Agree. Removed the first sentence from the prompt information.

```

> #### Example 3: When fetching a manifest if no manifest tag or digest is provided

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#### Example 3: No tag or digest provided when fetching a manifest if 
```

Current behavior and output:

```
$ oras manifest fetch --oci-layout /tmp/ginkgo1163328512
Error: "/tmp/ginkgo1163328512": no tag or digest when expecting <name:tag|name@digest>
```

Suggested error message:

```
$ oras manifest fetch --oci-layout /tmp/ginkgo1163328512
Error: "/tmp/ginkgo1163328512": no tag or digest specified
Usage: oras manifest fetch [flags] <name>{:<tag>|@<digest>}
You need to specify an artifact reference in the form of "<name>:<tag>" or "<name>@<digest>". Run "oras manifest fetch -h" for more options and examples 
```

#### Example 4: Push a manifest if no media type flag provided

Current behavior and output:

```
$ oras manifest push --oci-layout /sample/images:foobar:mediatype
Error: media type is not recognized. 
```

Suggested error message:

```
$ oras manifest push --oci-layout /sample/images:foobar:mediatype
Error: media type is not recognized. 
Usage: oras manifest push [flags] <name>[:<tag>[,<tag>][...]|@<digest>] <file>

> You need to specify a valid media type "mediaType" in the manifest JSON or via the "--media-type" flag.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You need to specify a valid media type in the manifest JSON or via the "--media-type" flag.
```

```

#### Example 7: When pushing files, if the annotation file doesn't match the required format

Current behavior and output:

```
$ oras push --annotation-file sbom.json ghcr.io/library/alpine:3.9
Error: failed to load annotations from sbom.json: json: cannot unmarshal string into Go value of type map[string]map[string]string. Please refer to the document at https://oras.land/docs/how_to_guides/manifest_annotations
```

Suggested error message:

```
$ oras push --annotation-file annotation.json ghcr.io/library/alpine:3.9
Error: invalid annotation json file: failed to load annotations from annotation.json.
Annotation file doesn't match the required format. Please refer to the document at https://oras.land/docs/how_to_guides/manifest_annotations
```

#### Example 8: When pushing files, if the annotation value doesn't match the required syntax

Current behavior and output:

```
$ oras push --annotation "key:value" ghcr.io/library/alpine:3.9
Error: missing key in `--annotation` flag: key:value
```

Suggested error message:

```
$ oras push --annotation "key:value" ghcr.io/library/alpine:3.9
Error: annotation value doesn't match the required format.

> Try `oras push --annotation "key=value" ghcr.io/library/alpine:3.9`  

Reviewer 3: It's impossible to restore the full input command, the best we can do provide a valid annotation value, like: (
also, simple usage need to be provided)
```
$ oras push --annotation "key:value" ghcr.io/library/alpine:3.9
Error: annotation value doesn't match the required format.
Usage: oras push [flags] <name>[:<tag>[,<tag>][...]] <file>[:<type>] [...]
Try `--annotation "key=value"`  
```

Reviewer 2: It is not "impossible" but it is not trivial to do so.

Author: Updated. Print the correct usage only in the prompt information is enough. I am fine with this format.

```

#### Example 9: When failed to pull files from a public registry

```
$ oras pull docker.io/nginx:latest
Error: failed to resolve latest: GET "https://registry-1.docker.io/v2/nginx/manifests/latest": response status code 401: unauthorized: authentication required: [map[Action:pull Class: Name:nginx Type:repository]]
```

Suggested error message:

```
$ oras pull docker.io/nginx:latest
Error response from registry: pull access denied for docker.io/nginx:latest : response status code 401: unauthorized: requested access to the resource is denied
Namespace is missing, do you mean `oras pull docker.io/library/nginx:latest`? 
```

#### Example 10: Neither registry nor OCI image layout provided when pushing a folder 

Current behavior and output:

```
$ oras push /oras --format json
Error: Head "https:///v2/oras/manifests/sha256:ffa50b27cd0096150c0338779c5090db41ba50d01179d851d68afa50b393c3a3": http: no Host in request URL
```

Suggested error message:

```
$ oras push /oras --format json

> Error: neither registry nor OCI image layout provided in the command 
> Usage: oras push [flags] <name>[:<tag>[,<tag>][...]] <file>[:<type>] [...]
> please specify a registry or an OCI image layout folder to push. Run "oras push -h" for more options and examples 

Reviewer 3: Since user haven't use `--oci-layout` here, the provided reference `/oras` is expected to be an artifact in a remote registry. To avoid confusion, suggest not to mention OCI layout.
```suggestion
Error: "/oras" is an invalid reference
Usage: oras push [flags] <name>[:<tag>[,<tag>][...]] <file>[:<type>] [...]
Please specify a valid reference in the form of <registry>/<repo>[:tag|@digest]
```

```

#### Example 11: Push a file or folder that doesn't exist

Current behavior and output:

```
$ oras push localhost:5000/oras:v1 hello.txt
Error: failed to stat /home/user/hello.txt: stat /home/user/hello.txt: no such file or directory
```

Suggested error message:

```
$ oras push localhost:5000/oras:v1 hello.txt
Error: /home/user/hello.txt: no such file or directory
```

#### Example 12: Attach a file to an incompatible registry

Current behavior and output:

```
$ oras attach docker.io/user/demo:v1 --artifact-type example/sbom sbom.spdx
Uploading 6cb759c4296e sbom.spdx
Uploaded  6cb759c4296e sbom.spdx

> Error: PUT "https://registry-1.docker.io/v2/user/demo/manifests/sha256:d2e409ed5674c9cf4fb5c13615288b130610ed893f97c78668ad233dc403976d": response status code 404: notfound: not found

Reviewer 2: This is interesting that dockerhub returns 404 on PUT for not supporting referrers?

Author: Yes. Line260 is the original logs from Docker Hub, but it looks too simple and confusing.

Reviewer 3: Dockerhub is returning 404 for not supporting manifests with subject field, **not** referrers API is not supported. [404 from listing referrers API call](https://github.com/opencontainers/distribution-spec/blob/v1.1.0-rc3/spec.md#listing-referrers) is a known error. There is no doc or post saying Dockerhub will keep returning 404 until manifests with subject is supported, suggest remove this example.

```

Suggested error message:

```
$ oras attach docker.io/user/demo:v1 --artifact-type example/sbom sbom.spdx
Uploading 6cb759c4296e sbom.spdx
Uploaded  6cb759c4296e sbom.spdx

> Error response from registry: PUT "https://registry-1.docker.io/v2/user/demo/manifests/sha256:d2e409ed5674c9cf4fb5c13615288b130610ed893f97c78668ad233dc403976d": response status code 404: notfound:

Reviewer 3: Should we hide `PUT`, URI and status code from user? Without using `--debug`, user might not care about those details.

If so, suggest change the error to
```suggestion
Error response from registry: this registry doesn't support storing referrers
```

Author: I agree. The default error log is supposed to be simple, readable, and actionable. The detailed server-side log could be showed when specifying `--debug`.

## Error output recommendation

### Dos

- Provide full description if the user input does not match what ORAS CLI expected. A full description should include the actual input received from the user and expected input
- Use the capital letter ahead of each line of any error message
- Print human readable error message. If the error message is mainly from the server and varies by different servers, tell users that the error response is from server. This implies that users may need to contact server side for troubleshooting
- Provide specific and actionable prompt message with argument suggestion or show the example usage for reference. (e.g, Instead of showing flag or argument options is missing, please provide available argument options and guide users to "--help" to view more examples)
- If the actionable prompt message is too long to show in the CLI output, consider guide users to ORAS user manual or troubleshooting guide with the versioned permanent link
- If the error message is not enough for troubleshooting, guide users to use "--verbose" to print much more detailed logs

> - If the error message from the server side is too generic or has no value, especially in a few edge cases like example 12 and 13 below, consider providing customized and trimmed error logs to make it clearer. The original server logs can be displayed in debug mode

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- If the error message from the server side is too generic or has no value, especially in a few edge cases like example 13 below, consider providing customized and trimmed error logs to make it clearer. The original server logs can be displayed in debug mode
```

```

#### Example 2: When user mistakenly uses `tag list` command

Current behavior and output:

```console
$ oras tag list ghcr.io/oras-project/oras
Error: unable to add tag for 'list': invalid reference: missing repository
```

Suggested error message:

```console
$ oras tag list ghcr.io/oras-project/oras
Error: There is no "list" sub-command for "oras tag" command.
Usage: oras tag [flags] <name>{:<tag>|@<digest>} <new_tag> [...]
If you want to list available tags in a repository, use "oras repo tags" 
```

#### Example 3: No tag or digest provided when fetching a manifest

Current behavior and output:

```console
$ oras manifest fetch --oci-layout /tmp/ginkgo1163328512
Error: "/tmp/ginkgo1163328512": no tag or digest when expecting <name:tag|name@digest>
```

Suggested error message:

```console
$ oras manifest fetch --oci-layout /tmp/ginkgo1163328512
Error: "/tmp/ginkgo1163328512": no tag or digest specified
Usage: oras manifest fetch [flags] <name>{:<tag>|@<digest>}
You need to specify an artifact reference in the form of "<name>:<tag>" or "<name>@<digest>". Run "oras manifest fetch -h" for more options and examples 
```

> #### Example 4: Push a manifest if no media type flag provided

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#### Example 4: Push a manifest if no media type provided
```

Current behavior and output:

```console

> $ oras manifest push --oci-layout /sample/images:foobar:mediatype

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
$ oras manifest push --oci-layout /sample/images:foobar:mediatype manifest.json
```

Error: media type is not recognized. 
```

Suggested error message:

```console

> $ oras manifest push --oci-layout /sample/images:foobar:mediatype
> Error: media type is not recognized. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
$ oras manifest push --oci-layout /sample/images:foobar:mediatype manifest.json
Error: media type is not found in the manifest.json
```

Reviewer 3: Or
```suggestion
$ oras manifest push --oci-layout /sample/images:foobar:mediatype
Error: media type is specified via --media-type and not found in manifest.json
```

$ oras push --annotation-file annotation.json ghcr.io/library/alpine:3.9
Error: invalid annotation json file: failed to load annotations from annotation.json.
Annotation file doesn't match the required format. Please refer to the document at https://oras.land/docs/how_to_guides/manifest_annotations
```

#### Example 8: When pushing files, if the annotation value doesn't match the required syntax

Current behavior and output:

```console
$ oras push --annotation "key:value" ghcr.io/library/alpine:3.9
Error: missing key in `--annotation` flag: key:value
```

Suggested error message:

```console
$ oras push --annotation "key:value" ghcr.io/library/alpine:3.9
Error: annotation value doesn't match the required format.
Please use the correct format in the flag: --annotation "key=value"  
```

#### Example 9: When failed to pull files from a public registry

```console
$ oras pull docker.io/nginx:latest
Error: failed to resolve latest: GET "https://registry-1.docker.io/v2/nginx/manifests/latest": response status code 401: unauthorized: authentication required: [map[Action:pull Class: Name:nginx Type:repository]]
```

Suggested error message:

```console
$ oras pull docker.io/nginx:latest

> Error response from registry: pull access denied for docker.io/nginx:latest : response status code 401: unauthorized: requested access to the resource is denied

Reviewer 3: Should not output status code as registry already returns error code, message and detail.
```suggestion
Error response from registry: pull access denied for docker.io/nginx:latest : unauthorized: requested access to the resource is denied
```

```

Suggested error message:

```console
$ oras push /oras --format json
Error: "/oras" is an invalid reference
Usage: oras push [flags] <name>[:<tag>[,<tag>][...]] <file>[:<type>] [...]
Please specify a valid reference in the form of <registry>/<repo>[:tag|@digest]
```

#### Example 11: Push a file or folder that doesn't exist

Current behavior and output:

```console
$ oras push localhost:5000/oras:v1 hello.txt
Error: failed to stat /home/user/hello.txt: stat /home/user/hello.txt: no such file or directory
```

Suggested error message:

```console
$ oras push localhost:5000/oras:v1 hello.txt
Error: /home/user/hello.txt: no such file or directory
```

#### Example 12: failed to authenticate with registry using an error credential from credential store

Current behavior and output:

```console
$ oras pull localhost:7000/repo:tag --registry-config auth.config
Error: failed to resolve tag: GET "http://localhost:7000/v2/repo/manifests/tag": credential required for basic auth
```

Suggested error message:

```console
$ oras pull localhost:7000/repo:tag --registry-config auth.config

> Error: pulling content from localhost:7000/repo:tag failed with status: 401 Unauthorized

Reviewer 3: Suggest to remove uri and status code since this is not a registry error
```suggestion
Error: failed to auth for oras pull: no valid credential found in auth.config
```

Please check whether the registry credential stored in the authentication file is correct
```

> #### Example 13: failed to resolve the digest with incorrect username or password

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#### Example 13: failed to resolve the digest with empty error response from registry
```

Current behavior and output:

```console
oras resolve localhost:7000/command/artifacts:foobar -u t -p 2
WARNING! Using --password via the CLI is insecure. Use --password-stdin.
Error response from registry: <nil>
```

Suggested error message:

```console
oras resolve localhost:7000/command/artifacts:foobar -u t -p 2
WARNING! Using --password via the CLI is insecure. Use --password-stdin.

> Error: resolving the digest of artifact localhost:7000/command/artifacts:foobar failed with status: 401 Unauthorized
> Authentication failed. Please verify your login credentials and try again.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Error response from registry: empty response body: failed to resolve digest: HEAD "http://localhost:7000/v2/test/manifests/bar": response status code 401: Unauthorized
```

> Error response from registry: empty response body: failed to resolve digest: HEAD "http://localhost:7000/v2/test/manifests/bar": response status code 401: Unauthorized

Reviewer 3: Hi @FeynmanZhou Can we change the error message as below:
```suggestion
Error response from registry: recognizable error message not found: failed to resolve digest: HEAD "http://localhost:7000/v2/test/manifests/bar": response status code 401: Unauthorized
```

The proposed error message is more accurate: the response body may be malformed and cannot be recognized by ORAS, but not empty.

Available options: v1.1-referrers-api, v1.1-referrers-tag
```

> #### Example 6: when attaching an file, if no file reference or annotation is provided

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Example 6: when attaching, if neither file reference nor annotation is provided
```

```
$ oras attach --artifact-type sbom/example localhost:5000/sample/images:foobar

> Error: no file or annotation provided in the command

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Error: neither file nor annotation provided in the command
```

Namespace is missing, do you mean `oras pull docker.io/library/nginx:latest`? 
```

#### Example 10: Neither registry nor OCI image layout provided when pushing a folder 

Current behavior and output:

> ```

Author: Updated all code blocks with adding `console`

Current behavior and output:

```console
$ oras pull localhost:7000/repo:tag --registry-config auth.config
Error: failed to resolve tag: GET "http://localhost:7000/v2/repo/manifests/tag": credential required for basic auth
```

Suggested error message:

```console
$ oras pull localhost:7000/repo:tag --registry-config auth.config
Error: pulling content from localhost:7000/repo:tag failed with status: 401 Unauthorized
Please check whether the registry credential stored in the authentication file is correct
```

#### Example 13: failed to resolve the digest with incorrect username or password

Current behavior and output:

```console
oras resolve localhost:7000/command/artifacts:foobar -u t -p 2
WARNING! Using --password via the CLI is insecure. Use --password-stdin.
Error response from registry: <nil>
```

Suggested error message:

```console
oras resolve localhost:7000/command/artifacts:foobar -u t -p 2
WARNING! Using --password via the CLI is insecure. Use --password-stdin.
Error: resolving the digest of artifact localhost:7000/command/artifacts:foobar failed with status: 401 Unauthorized

> Please use correct username or password

Reviewer 2: We might want to rephase this sentence. Examples from Bing Chat:
1. "Invalid login credentials. Please try again."
2. "Authentication failed. Please verify your login details and try again."
3. "Access denied. Please ensure that your login information is correct and try again."

Author: Agree. *Login credentials* is much proper than *username/password* in this case. I updated this sentence to:

"Authentication failed. Please verify your login credentials and try again."
